Chapter 3
Love &Winter Tide


The days were getting shorter and colder, and the clouds were much more pronounced in the evening skies, so it came as a surprise when a beam of light hit the table and stayed for most of the date between Urik and Kali, a lovely dark-skinned girl from the eastern islands. She had long lively hair that curled uniquely in spots that Urik found endearing. Her smile was infectious, and despite his mood he always found himself smiling back at her and caught in her dream-like eyes in complacency and reverie. They were sitting outside at a small umbrella table near their local cafe. Though it was not too busy, Urik was careful to choose a table away from the crowd where they could be alone. When she caught him staring at her, however, he was quick to wonder whether it was all just a bit too suspicious.
“Urik,” she said softly, her smile not fading. “Why did you bring me here?”
And immediately his smile did fade. He sighed and took a small sip of his Macchiato cocktail, taking his eyes off of hers for the first time since they sat down. His face was still slightly swollen from the fight he had with his father two nights ago (if you could call it that). He suspected that his appearance was the only reason Kali had accepted his invitation for a date together, but there was only so much time that would buy him before the inevitable line of questioning.
“What’s going on?” She asked, her smile melting more into concern as he averted his eyes.
“Kali,” he began. “I wanted to apologize for the way we left things. I really did love you–do still love you,” he corrected. Kali seemed unconvinced, but still attentive. He had to choose his words more carefully.
“Urik,” her smile fell a bit. “You know that I’ve since moved on from–”
“Y-yeah, I know…” Urik interrupted. “It’s not that.”
He paused and pushed his drink to the side. He took her hand in his and fell once again into her eyes which sparkled like the setting sun behind her. He felt the words being caught in his throat as her hair brushed past her lips ever so slightly in the evening breeze. 
“I need your help,” he finally managed. 
Kali was silent for a moment. Her mind was on his injuries and immediately she wondered whether he was in some sort of trouble. He had a tendency to get caught up in the wrong crowd, she remembered. And she remembered a few other things too which made her flush with anger all over again, though she tried to hide it.
“You’re in trouble again, aren’t you?” She finally said, pulling her hand away. “Is it money again? Urik, I can’t keep–”.
“No, just… no. It’s not money.” His eyes reassured her, and she was confused all over again.
“Then what…” she said.
Urik sighed, noticing how empty his hand felt without hers to hold. It was getting a bit colder too. He did not have much time before the date would reach its natural end. But now as he thought of what it could mean if she would help him, he could not help but grow more excited.
“Did you catch the expo a few days ago? The one on the Temerden Greater City News?” He paused. She waited for him to continue. 
“They were talking about the new security enhancements to the anti-personnel drones… Anyway. The person who gave the announcement–his name is Dr. Strom. He’s a geneticist and roboticist who specializes in cell reproduction on a molecular level and organic intelligence. At first I thought he was just like all the others at Temer-Stride University, puppets of the Central Government… I didn’t think he had the vision to see beyond the dictates of the capital. But then, awhile after the event, he was still taking questions. I-um, left home and caught the rest at Ji’s tavern down the road… But what I heard him say shocked me. He said he was working on something that could revolutionize the current field of organic cybernetics. A thinking system that could feel and adapt to its surroundings… think of it like a living organism that could adapt to match the ideal surroundings of any organic system.”
“Urik,” Kali said, her eyes showing slight concern. It was clear she was not understanding, so Urik stopped short.
“Sorry–Strom’s research could bridge the gap between man and machine. It’s very close to what I’ve been working on, in my research.” He said. Kali still seemed confused. He knew she was smart, so that was not the issue. He sighed and took another sip of his drink.
“This is what you asked me out here for?” Kali said. “To talk more about your stupid science project? The same project that caused us to split apart in the first place?” She looked ready to get up and leave. Urik choked a cough and caught her.
“Kali, this is bigger than that. This research could lead to something much bigger than just my project,” he said. Hurriedly he pulled out a sheet of paper and slid it forward on the table. Kali was becoming more agitated by the second, and now she looked at the paper just to see how much more ridiculous this ‘date’ would become.
“This is Dr. Strom’s schedule. Look, it’s a dinner party on the 3rd of Winter’s Eve.” He pointed. “The venue is set at Mr. Nordstram’s villa on 117th avenue along the inner city coast. I remember that your Uncle has ties to a few of his donors. Surely he could get an invitation? Kali. It would be huge if I could meet Dr. Strom! And maybe we could compare notes? I don’t know, but I just need to get into that party, Kali. You’re my only hope.” 
Though he wasn’t telling her the full truth, he thought it should be more than what she needed to know. As he wondered whether it would be enough, he watched and waited.
Kali stared at him for a moment, somehow caught between two states of shock and denial. She took a last sip of her drink and rose from her seat.
“I can’t believe I came here,” she said, shaking her head. 
“Kali–” Urik said.
“No, Urik. How could you even ask me something like that? You know the kind of relationship I have with my Uncle. Don’t you remember the whole story behind that? My family does not speak to him, much less ask him for favors. And what is this anyway? You asked me here on a date just to get to my Uncle? Another Vaj’or special, I assume. You really know how to stick with the classics.” 
As Kali stood and feverishly walked away from the table, Urik sat in silence for a moment before grabbing his schedule and hurrying after his date.
“Kali,” he called, pushing past the bystanders to catch up. “Listen! I’m sorry about your Uncle. I know that you’re not on the best of terms with him, but this could be really important. I am so close to a breakthrough on this. The research I’ve been doing, it’s finally coming to a close. It has taken a lot out of me, believe me I know. It has taken my freedom, my family, and even the love we had. I know what I had to sacrifice to get here, what I still have to sacrifice. I couldn’t live with myself knowing what I could have done, but didn’t!”
“Ohh, yes, that is sad.” She said, stopping at the side of a building. “So burdened by your duty, your calling is so awesome that I certainly couldn’t possibly understand it! That’s all I would hear about even when we were together. Every moment I felt I was taking up some time of yours, like I was taking away from some uber important cause you had to accomplish.”
“Kali–it’s not that simple…” Urik said.
“Can’t you give it a rest? I mean, with you it’s the same story every time.” She said. “Ohh, look at me, my name is Urik. And every day I run the risk of being devoured, by my own brain–because it’s so, fucking powerful.”
Urik looked around nervously and pulled Kali to the side, further away from any onlookers.
“Kali–” he started.
“My sacrifices, my sacrifices!” She mocked.
“OK! I get it!” Urik said, and sighed. “We can’t talk so loud, Kali. I don’t know when the new drones will come online.” His eyes were pleading.
Kali stopped and gave him a dirty and impatient look. Then as she saw him, with the bruises on his face and the look in his eyes, she thought he looked a bit different… a bit…… lost. Her eyes softened to his and before she knew it she was leaning on the wall with her arms crossed in front of her, still looking sideways at the only boy she had ever fallen in love with.
“You know what…” Kali said after the silence grew to its peak. “I am glad that you invited me out here. Maybe I was wrong before. Maybe I wasn’t over you yet, not truly.” She looked at him again, her face cold as the wind blew away the tears before they could touch her skin. 
“If I wasn’t over you then, I am now.” She said, wiping her eyes.
Urik took a step closer and gently caught her hand, letting a tear fall as the wind died down and the sun eclipsed to nightfall. He looked into her eyes as he had before, noticing the light that played against the soft features staring back at him. There was no other way, he thought, and he would have to tell her the full truth if she was ever going to buy into his cause. He let his gaze fall to the short distance between their feet.
“You were the only person who ever understood me. I need that from you again.” He said, meeting her eyes again. She was silent and trembling in the night air.
“I need you to trust me as I tell you this.” He started, pausing and ever-evaluating whether he should really go through with it. Finally, he forced himself to say it. “I’m a fugitive, Kali. I’m harboring class 7 illegal technology–” he stopped, and sighed, his voice trembling now, “a boy, a robot… who resembles my little brother.” 
And as he admitted the truth, a truth he had yet to admit even to himself, he took a step back and clasped a hand over his mouth as if to keep from vomiting. 
Kali was slow, but she let her arms fall from in front of her and stared. Then her eyes darted to the ground in thought, as if searching for answers.
“I thought–I thought that maybe the change you went through… had something to do with your brother.” She said. “You’re saying… the robot looks like him?”
Urik turned around and grabbed her by the arms.
“Kali, you can’t tell anyone about this. I know it sounds crazy but, I think I can fix him. I’m so close and I’ve never seen anything like it. The technology is so evolved, far greater than anything we have here on Yllis-7. I just need Dr. Strom’s help. I need your help.” He pleaded, taking her hands.
She shook her head, half in disbelief and half in denial.
“Urik, do you have any idea how dangerous robots are after the blip? The only reliable artificial intelligence we have is K-0.” She spoke slowly, as if reciting the words to herself. Still, she met his desperate stare in a sorrowful dismissal. “I can’t help you with this. You could hurt or killed. And worse you could cause Temer to fall into complete chaos–to completely lose its standing on the core path. We’re not supposed to have these things, Urik! Think about everyone else, what our society has to lose!” 
Urik nodded and never left her eyes. He knew that she believed in the core path before he had decided to tell her the truth, but telling her was his last hope. Kali turned her eyes away before the softness of his gave into her. She took a step away from him and toward the street, closing her eyes which were burning now, and steeling her heart. 
“I’m sorry,” she said with one last look at him. “Stay safe.”
And she was gone. 

It is hard to say where Urik threw himself after this particular event. Some believe he went back to the junk yard, to continue work. Others believe he wandered aimlessly for awhile. But what was more important and infinitely more interesting is where Kali went. 
She went home.
The night had fallen now and Kali’s mind reeled with the love she once felt for the twisted boy with dirty brown hair–who was now a criminal from the law. Her values had always been hard-pressed into her by a mother who knew best over everyone and a father who the experience to back up his boast. She was well educated, well taken care-of, and well loved. And when her father died, found hanging from his own belt buckle in his central office, those values became more precious to her than the very life he had given her. 
Now, she thought, the one boy she had ever loved threatened to take away those values, to steal away her resolve and leave her with nothing but an empty sofa cushion. He wanted her to believe in his cause, the same cause that had divided them at a time when they both needed each other the most. He wanted her to stray from the Core Path, the Path her father had worked his entire life to support, and the path that she had believed in with all her heart. 
Kali’s sister was still small, born shortly after her father’s death. She was five years old and knew little of the world, so it was hard to turn her away when she jumped at her sister’s arrival to the back door of her home. She greeted her sister with her famous smile and held her as she talked about the intricate dealings of a preschooler’s colorful world. As she listened, however, she could not remove Urik’s voice from her mind. She could not shake his desperation from the pit of her gut, a desperation that threatened to tear at her heart from within her own bowels. She put her sister down gently and disappeared into her room, locking the door behind her.
Her head hit her pillow softly and she thought she would cry again, but she did not. She had gotten good at closing her mind to the tears, not letting them embody how vulnerable the world wanted her to be. She turned to the side, staring out the window which covered acres of land and some houses lit at the other end of a road. Then the night sky, stretching… the same night sky that watched her crush the dreams of her once best friend. 
She could not help but feel that she had chosen wrong–that for some reason, she was supposed to say fuck it and throw her life away, give up her studies, abandon her family and run off to a life of crime with this boy she had known for just a few years. She was supposed to join him in dismantling the very foundation of her beliefs… of her father’s sacrifices and teachings. Who is she to get to have beliefs when someone like Urik stumbles into her life? After all, he was the smartest kid in class! Had ambitions no one had even considered! He was a dreamboat that cared about no one, until she strolled along and managed to warm his heart with nothing more than a smile. Who is she to deny him now?
And now as she loathed him for his self-importance, she remembered a time when she treasured it as his greatest quality. When had her love and admiration given way to jealousy and insecurity? When did she begin to consider the very passion that she had once lauded in him the subject of his betrayal? And why should she? Never had wanted someone as purely themselves, who admired her for herself, as much as she had wanted him. Once upon a time, she even admired herself through him… and now she only saw rage and misunderstanding. Her image had been obscured, altered in ways she could not have foreseen, and morphed around his purity. She had failed in maintaining the integrity of her character, the very foundation of her being, in the midst of the strength of his. 
Would she fail again?
As she pondered this, she found herself on her back now, staring at the same ceiling she had since when they were together, and since she was a child. She wondered a long time about the integrity of her character… whether her personality, her values, her strengths and weaknesses, would survive another encounter with Urik. She wondered it as she closed her eyes and this time, shed a tear for him–not for lost love, but for a lost friend caught in the tides of the times… a man meant to do great things, who had lost himself to the only thing that could break a man so strong–the loss of someone special. 
So she let herself cry for him, and said: “I’m sorry, my love.”
And she was sorry, not for what she had done, but for what she had to do now.
With a mind hardened by resolve and resolute with the strength of its character, Kali opened her computer and filed a report. 
On the top, it was titled: Urgent Matter for the TDA.
 
Tanya Cov’Etta was a woman whose features granted her a stronger impression of wisdom and honesty in their aging maturity. She was going on eighty-years old at this point in C-32’s history, and she had seen much of the colony’s mid-life crisis as well as the development of its policies from one prime minister to the next. She was strong in her beliefs, and resolute in her understanding of the things around her. Though, as she watched her family crumble around her, she feared that the legacy she and her Mo’mire had built together would not stand firm much longer. Rather than a grand chapter, it would be a mere blip in C-32’s grand history. 
Tanya’s family had once been large and vibrant with color and life and plans for the future of their family name. They were denounced in the eastern villages for choosing to join the central alliance, a gamble that Tanya was sure would one day pay off. And it seemed she was right. Though many would say that the brothers, her children, did all of the work, anyone in the family knew that she was the mastermind behind all of their successes. They had arrived more numerous to count, with ambitions only men with sense would dream of, but something happened along the way… 
“Mani,” her granddaughter had said one day, sitting on her lap before the sunrise. “When are we going home to see Papi?”
Though Remi had never known him, Tanya never had it in her to explain where her Papi had really gone. She could not explain to a mere child, and in fact she could not explain it to herself. Her precious Luo’h was the most ambitious of her family. He had such high hopes and such a low end… a disgrace to the family name. How could he have gone home, and abandoned the family that sacrificed so much for him? She shook her head, as if to dismiss the thought entirely, and said to her Muni: “This is our home now. Some day, maybe he will return to us.”
The family had scattered across Temer. Some still lived in the greater city, while others lived in far out desolate regions. But they all had their beliefs in common. And they all shared in one particular belief especially: Luo’h had loved life. He and his brother were partners in a business venture that saw the use of cybernetics in industrial labor and construction. Working together with TIRMA labs, they employed thousands of employees who had been handicapped, but qualified for an experimental treatment that replaced the damaged part of their body with state-of-the-art engineering. They quickly succeeded in building a brand and capitalizing on a huge market for injured workers. Using their resources and the loyalty of their new worker base, they gradually began to outperform traditional contracting agencies. But as the money grew, the trust between brothers would inversely diminish. Their visions grew apart, as one sought greed and the other sought restitution for the down-trodden, and they became ardent competitors against one another.
It was never spoken to the younger members of the family, but the older generation could read the blood on the walls. They hardly needed Tanya’s campaign, which was unrelenting, to be convinced that the brothers’ quarrels might have reached an unimaginable tipping point. All eyes fell on Henriel, the man who had vowed that the next time he would see his brother would be at his funeral. To others it was clearly a suicide–the TDA had investigated the matter thoroughly: no signs of entry or struggle, the note was clearly written and signed by Luo’h, and the official cause of death was asphyxiation, but the family knew Henriel. If he had done it, there would be no way to find out. He was smart. Too smart. The TDA would never find a culprit, and Luo’h’s legacy would be forever lost to this disgrace. But the family knew, and they would always know.
Kali was still young when she heard the news. She would spend most of her time eavesdropping on family meetings and phone calls, hoping to get even a semblance of understanding as to what happened to her Papi, because unlike her sister, she did know him and she missed him dearly. She had gathered on her own that the family suspected her Uncle as her father’s killer. In fact, she had known this early on simply by reading the room. When he came to pay his condolences shortly after his brother’s death, it was clear that he was not welcomed. Kali was told to stay away from him–a man who she had previously known and loved as dear as anyone in her family. 
As Kali grew older, she grew to hate her uncle as the man who had torn her heart into two pieces. That was why, as she descended the stairs from her room to the living room, she was caught in utter disbelief as the subject of her animosity, Henriel Cov’etta, stood clutching his cap in the middle of her living room floor. 
He was a tall man, two inches taller than his late brother, with dark hair and dark skin that matched her own. His face was wider than she remembered, swollen with what appeared to be sympathy or guilt, and his shoulders appeared broader. He was wearing an overcoat covering a business-casual uniform that was sleek black and wash blue. He smiled up at her weakly and called to her, “My Maori…”
Kali stole her heart and descended the stairs, closing herself in her night robe. She had done enough crying for one weekend. 
“Mani, why is he in our house? What is he doing here?” Then she remembered Urik and his questioning about the dinner party. Was this him? Did he really call her Uncle? She began to flush with rage before her Mani sat forward in her chair to meet her eyes.
“I invited him, Muni.” She said, her eyes pleading and soft. This was not like her, Kali thought, but she stepped down further and joined them in the living area. Remi was watching from the behind the wall in the other room. Good, Kali thought, not wanting her sister near this maniac. 
“Ma’am?” Kali addressed her grandmother respectfully, taking a seat. 
Tanya gestured for Henriel to sit too, and he did so in the brother’s old chair, much to Kali’s great annoyance. Her patience died immediately and she looked at her grandmother again.
“Thank you for coming so shortly, Henriel.” Tanya said, her voice frail and somewhat broken. Kali thought she sounded odd, not quite herself, but given the circumstances she supposed it was due to stress. She could not fathom that her Mani, who had made such a resolution to the family against the man sitting before them, still loved him more dearly than she loved herself. She did not realize the depth of emotion welling up in her grandmother, until the woman began to weep softly for her son and she was left disarmed as the two embraced.
Henriel joined his mother in tears and they were silent for a long time. Kali just watched, bewildered and confused. Then she sprang forward, but she was too late to catch Remi as she ran from the other room and gave the man in the long brown coat a hug with her own child-like squeal, as if she was meeting her hero for the first time. And lightning struck Kali’s heart when Remi declared, “Papi!” and he picked her up and hugged her with a joyful laugh.
“Stop it!” Kali screamed, jumping from her seat. “Remi, this is not Papi! And damn you for sitting in his chair!” She shoved the man away from her Mani and little sister. 
“Kali!” Her grandmother shouted sternly. That was the voice she remembered. 
“But Mani!” She pleaded.
“Sit!” She said, and her eyes burned to look into for too long. Kali grabbed her sister and held her as she took her father’s chair.
“That is enough of this,” Tanya said bitterly. Though she was wise, she was not as sharp or emotionally stable as she had been. Her voice betrayed her newfound frailty and it was clear to Kali what was going on.
“I want no more,” her Mani said again. Her accent was deep. “No more of all this hatred. I want my family repaired. I want my Kamille!” She bent to pick her son up, her hands trembling lightly.
“Mami,” he said roughly and hugged her again. Then he turned to Kali and her sister.
“I am sorry for this,” his voice was fast and efficient, but weighted in a sorrow that Kali refused to comprehend. “I understand what you must think of me, what the family thinks of me now, but I did not do this… And it is time we come together.”
As her son rose and she cleared her eyes away, Tanya began to regain what was left of her senses and she turned to her Munis with a discerning brow.
“I started this war on my son, because I was in pain. T’was my trouble, not his to bear.” She said. “Was nothing I could do to escape the pain, except to cast the blame, make it no longer real for me.” She hugged her son again.
“Kali,” he said, shaking his head. “I was just in town. My mother heard that I was visiting and she reached out. That is all. I just wanted to see you all again.”
Kali held her sister for a moment, trying to calm her squirming while she complained about wanting to be let go. She looked at him carefully, but soon admitted to herself that she was not ready to listen to whatever he had to say. She just wanted him to go away. 
“Kali I wouldn’t have come here if I knew you would be uncomfortable,” he said. “I did not think that you had any idea of these… accusations. The lies that went through the family. I forgive my mother. She has come to her senses and she was in pain for the loss of her child, my brother. But believe me, I would not disrespect his name by coming here if I were his killer.” 
Kali sighed and looked up to the ceiling, hoping it would help to keep back any tears that may fall without her knowing. This was the last conversation she felt like having. Why did everything have to come all at once?
“I always taught you, my Kali, to think for yourself. You were always such a smart girl.” He gave a laugh with a tear. “You always had a comeback. You were never one to fall for the pressure of others. The family–they are sick, Kali… Sick with grief and confusion. Your father and I had our business disputes, but we were still brothers.”
Kali looked at the man with suspecting eyes. She did not believe a word from him, but somehow what he was saying did trigger something inside of her. As she listened to the sins of her family, the depths of hatred that ran through like an infection and spread to the farthest regions, she wondered if she had been infected by that same virus. Though her father taught her values that she would later cherish, there were lessons that her father and her uncle taught her that were even more important. Integrity, understanding, and slowness to anger. These were essential qualities for any business or society to thrive. These were essential for people to thrive as well.
“You’re right.” She said. “I should think for myself. And I am. Whether or not you were directly responsible for my father’s death, I still hate you the same.”
“No!” Remi screamed, shaking herself free from his sister’s lap. “Not Papi!”
“Remi, that is not your Papi!” She yelled. “What was written in my father’s letter… If those were his words then you are still responsible.” Her tears came now, and she wiped them away as fast as she could. 
“He loved you more than he loved himself. He would do anything for you, to see you happy, and the curse that you laid on him was too much for him to bear!”
“Kali you stop that!” Tanya said.
“Mani,” Kali said. “He was his brother, and what he did and what he said to him… it was the worst kind of betrayal! You should stick with those you love, no matter what, through whatever. You should be there for each other. You should love them if you ever did, and that should never change, not for anything–” and Kali gasped, clutching her mouth as she thought of Urik.
“You taught me that,” her voice was weak, “you should stand by those you love.”
“No matter what.” Mani said, and clutched her son’s hand. Kali ignored them, bowled past what she still regarded as a horrific scene, and ran upstairs before it was too late.
“Urik,” she said, opening her laptop, tears streaming now. “What have I done, what have I done…” she kept repeating, waiting for the computer to load. Then, as she read the response from the TDA, she saw that she was too late.
Urik would be arrested and tried against the Central Government.